BUG_FIXES.md, before:

# Bug Fixes Summary

This document outlines the three critical bugs that were identified and fixed in the Culinary Logic Puzzle game.

## Bug #1: Password Validation Logic Error (Authentication Flow)

**Location:** `js/auth-modal.js` lines 1322-1325

**Issue:** The password validation was only checking for minimum length (8 characters) but not enforcing the complexity requirements that were mentioned in error messages. When users tried to sign up with passwords that didn't meet complexity requirements, they would get inconsistent error messages.

**Root Cause:** The sign-up flow was missing validation logic for password complexity (uppercase, lowercase, numbers, and symbols) even though error handling code mentioned these requirements.

**Fix:** Added comprehensive password complexity validation for sign-up process:
- Checks for uppercase letters (A-Z)
- Checks for lowercase letters (a-z)  
- Checks for numbers (0-9)
- Checks for symbols/special characters
- Only applies during sign-up, not sign-in

**Impact:** Users now get consistent and accurate password validation feedback during account creation.

## Bug #2: Streak Calculation Logic Error (Player Stats)

**Location:** `js/streak.js` lines 103-112

**Issue:** The streak calculation logic had a flaw where if a player completed the same day recipe multiple times (which is allowed), it would incorrectly reset their streak to 1 instead of maintaining their current streak count.

**Root Cause:** The logic only handled three cases:
1. First completion ever
2. Consecutive day (dayNumber - 1)  
3. Non-consecutive (all other cases)

This meant that completing the same day again (dayNumber === lastCompletedDayNumber) was treated as "non-consecutive" and reset the streak.

**Fix:** Added a fourth case to handle same-day completions:
```javascript
} else if (streakData.lastCompletedDayNumber === dayNumber) {
  // Same day completion - don't change streak, just update longest if current is higher
  streakData.longestStreak = Math.max(streakData.longestStreak, streakData.currentStreak);
```

**Impact:** Players' streaks are now preserved when they replay the same day's recipe, maintaining accurate streak statistics.

## Bug #3: Mistake Counter Race Condition (Player Stats)

**Location:** `js/supabase.js` lines 887 and 925 (trackMistake and trackHintUsed functions)

**Issue:** Both mistake and hint tracking had race conditions where the local counters (`totalMistakes++` and `totalHintsUsed++`) were incremented before the database update was confirmed successful. If the database update failed, the local counter would still be incremented, leading to inconsistent state between local display and stored data.

**Root Cause:** The increment operation happened before confirming the database write was successful:
```javascript
totalMistakes++;  // This happened regardless of database success
const { error } = await supabase.from('game_sessions').update(...)
```

**Fix:** Changed both functions to use an optimistic approach with rollback:
1. Calculate the new total value
2. Attempt database update with the new value
3. Only update local counter after successful database confirmation
4. If database update fails, local counter remains unchanged

**Impact:** Ensures consistency between displayed stats and stored data, preventing discrepancies when network issues or database errors occur.

## Testing Recommendations

1. **Password Validation:** Test sign-up with various password combinations to ensure complexity requirements are enforced
2. **Streak Logic:** Test completing the same recipe multiple times to verify streak preservation  
3. **Stats Consistency:** Test with poor network conditions to ensure mistake/hint counters stay consistent

## Summary

These fixes address critical issues in user authentication, player progression tracking, and data consistency. All fixes maintain backward compatibility and improve the overall reliability of the game's core systems.

Commit message:

Fix autocomplete animation timing and state machine issues
Co-authored-by: allcott87 <allcott87@gmail.com>

BUG_FIXES.md, after:

# Bug Fixes Summary

This document outlines the three critical bugs that were identified and fixed in the Culinary Logic Puzzle game.

## Bug #1: Password Validation Logic Error (Authentication Flow)

**Location:** `js/auth-modal.js` lines 1322-1325

**Issue:** The password validation was only checking for minimum length (8 characters) but not enforcing the complexity requirements that were mentioned in error messages. When users tried to sign up with passwords that didn't meet complexity requirements, they would get inconsistent error messages.

**Root Cause:** The sign-up flow was missing validation logic for password complexity (uppercase, lowercase, numbers, and symbols) even though error handling code mentioned these requirements.

**Fix:** Added comprehensive password complexity validation for sign-up process:
- Checks for uppercase letters (A-Z)
- Checks for lowercase letters (a-z)  
- Checks for numbers (0-9)
- Checks for symbols/special characters
- Only applies during sign-up, not sign-in

**Impact:** Users now get consistent and accurate password validation feedback during account creation.

## Bug #2: Streak Calculation Logic Error (Player Stats)

**Location:** `js/streak.js` lines 103-112

**Issue:** The streak calculation logic had a flaw where if a player completed the same day recipe multiple times (which is allowed), it would incorrectly reset their streak to 1 instead of maintaining their current streak count.

**Root Cause:** The logic only handled three cases:
1. First completion ever
2. Consecutive day (dayNumber - 1)  
3. Non-consecutive (all other cases)

This meant that completing the same day again (dayNumber === lastCompletedDayNumber) was treated as "non-consecutive" and reset the streak.

**Fix:** Added a fourth case to handle same-day completions:
```javascript
} else if (streakData.lastCompletedDayNumber === dayNumber) {
  // Same day completion - don't change streak, just update longest if current is higher
  streakData.longestStreak = Math.max(streakData.longestStreak, streakData.currentStreak);
```

**Impact:** Players' streaks are now preserved when they replay the same day's recipe, maintaining accurate streak statistics.

## Bug #3: Mistake Counter Race Condition (Player Stats)

**Location:** `js/supabase.js` lines 887 and 925 (trackMistake and trackHintUsed functions)

**Issue:** Both mistake and hint tracking had race conditions where the local counters (`totalMistakes++` and `totalHintsUsed++`) were incremented before the database update was confirmed successful. If the database update failed, the local counter would still be incremented, leading to inconsistent state between local display and stored data.

**Root Cause:** The increment operation happened before confirming the database write was successful:
```javascript
totalMistakes++;  // This happened regardless of database success
const { error } = await supabase.from('game_sessions').update(...)
```

**Fix:** Changed both functions to use an optimistic approach with rollback:
1. Calculate the new total value
2. Attempt database update with the new value
3. Only update local counter after successful database confirmation
4. If database update fails, local counter remains unchanged

**Impact:** Ensures consistency between displayed stats and stored data, preventing discrepancies when network issues or database errors occur.

## 2024-01-XX - Fixed Hyperactive Autocomplete Animation

### Issue
The autocomplete animation was triggering too quickly for non-final recipe combinations, especially when only two vessels remained to be combined. The animations were happening with "great speed" making the experience feel hyperactive.

### Root Causes
1. **State Machine Timing Issue**: The WAITING state was immediately transitioning to PENULTIMATE without properly checking the initial timer
2. **Animation Detection**: The code was checking for verb animations at only 1% progress (0.01) instead of waiting for them to reach midpoint
3. **Missing Animation Checks**: CombineAnimation (particle effects) weren't being checked, allowing the timer to count down during active animations
4. **Short Timers**: The timers between combinations were too short (45 frames/1.5 seconds)
5. **Fast Pulse Animation**: The pulse animation was only 500ms, contributing to the hyperactive feel

### Fixes Applied
1. **Fixed WAITING State**: Added proper timer check in WAITING state to respect the initial 45-frame delay
2. **Improved Animation Detection**: Changed verb animation progress check from 0.01 to 0.5 (50%) to properly wait for animations
3. **Added CombineAnimation Checks**: Now checking for active particle animations in both GameLogic.js and draw.js
4. **Increased Timers**: 
   - PENULTIMATE combinations: 45 → 90 frames (3 seconds)
   - WAITING → PENULTIMATE transition: 20 → 30 frames (1 second)
5. **Slowed Pulse Animation**: Increased pulse duration from 500ms to 1000ms for both auto and manual combinations

### Result
The autocomplete animation now has a more measured, deliberate pace that gives players time to see what's happening without feeling rushed or hyperactive.

## Testing Recommendations

1. **Password Validation:** Test sign-up with various password combinations to ensure complexity requirements are enforced
2. **Streak Logic:** Test completing the same recipe multiple times to verify streak preservation  
3. **Stats Consistency:** Test with poor network conditions to ensure mistake/hint counters stay consistent

## Summary

These fixes address critical issues in user authentication, player progression tracking, and data consistency. All fixes maintain backward compatibility and improve the overall reliability of the game's core systems.
